There's no time to lose! Prince Azrael and his cat armies are about to steal our poor princess!

Нет времени, которое можно было бы терять! Принц Азраэль и его армии котов хотят украсть нашу несчастную принцессу!

Hurry, Spyro! If we don't get to the castle right away, the princess will be forced to marry that loser, Prince Azrael!

Торопись, Спайро! Если мы не успеем в замок вовремя, принцесса выйдет замуж за этого неудачника, Принца Азраэля!

Well, Spyro, today is your lucky day! The wizards and I have worked out a little deal. If you simply pay a small toll, they'll be happy to raise these steps and let you pass. &Pay ^^^ gems to raise the steps? &Yes. &No.

Спайро, сегодня твой счастливый день! Волшебники и я заключили маленькую сделку. Если ты заплатишь маленькую пошлину, они поднимут ступени и ты сможешь пройдти. &Заплатить ^^^ камней, чтобы опустить ступени? &Да. &Нет.

You have chosen wisely, Spyro. I'll tell the wizards to raise the steps immediately... And, err, best of luck rescuing that princess, or whatever it is you're up to...

Мудрый выбор, Спайро. Я скажу магам, чтобы они сейчас же подняли ступени... И, э-э, удачи со спасением принцессы, или кого ты там спасаешь...

Suit yourself, Spyro... but every time I think of that poor, poor fairy princess being captured by those villainous wizards, I simply break down in tears.

Твоё дело, Спайро... Но когда я думаю о бедной маленькой принцессе-фее, захваченной этими злыми магами, я не могу сдержать слёз.

Say, Spyro, if you had a bit more money, I think I could make a deal with the wizards to raise these steps. I'm afraid that's the only way you'll be able to get to the castle. &[^^^ gems needed to use steps.

Если ты найдёшь немного больше денег, Спайро, я, наверное, смогу договориться с теми волшебниками, чтобы они подняли ступени. Боюсь, это единственный способ попасть в замок. &[^^^ камней нужно, чтобы поднять ступени.

You know, come to think of it, the wizards only agreed to raise the steps. They never said they wouldn't lower them again... heh heh... Those guys are pretty clever, aren't they?

Знаешь, те маги согласились только поднять ступени. Они не говорили, что не опустят их снова... хе-хе... Эти парни очень умные, правда?

Step inside, old chum!    -Sgt. James Byrd

Заходи, кореш! -Сержант Джеймс Бёрд.

Princess Ami

Принцесса Ами

Ohh... hee hee... Hi, Spyro! Isn't Prince Azrael just the dreamiest? The other fairies and wizards won't let us get married, so we're going to elope! ... By the way, Azrael says you can have this egg if you don't tell anyone where we went!

Ох... хи-хи... Привет, Спайро! Принц Азраэль - просто мечта, правда? Феи и маги не хотели, чтобы мы поженились, и мы решили сбежать!.. Кстати, Азраэль сказал, что ты можешь взять это яйцо, если не скажешь, куда мы сбежали!

I just saw Prince Azrael run into the castle! We have to stop him before he reaches the princess!

Я только что видела Принца Азраэля в замке! Надо остановить его, пока он не настиг принцессу!

Spyro, we urgently need your help! The evil cat wizards of Felinia have stormed our castle and captured our princess! If we don't stop them right away, they'll force her to marry Prince Azrael!

Спайро, нам срочно нужна твоя помощь! Злые коты-маги Фелинии взяли наш замок и захватили принцессу! Если мы их не остановим, ей придётся выйти замуж за Принца Азраэля!

Good day, Spyro! I'd like to stay and chat, but I'm late for a... err... an engagement with a fairy friend of mine... err... she's just a friend, you understand... it's a strictly platonic relationship... it's certainly not a violation of military protocol whatsoever... What? What are you giving me that look for?

Добрый день, Спайро! Я бы поболтал с тобой, но я опаздываю на... э-э... на встречу с другом... э-э... она просто друг, ты же знаешь... строго официальные отношения... это ни в коем месте не нарушение военного протокола... Что? Почему ты так на меня смотришь?

Where have you been, James? We were supposed to meet in the temple an hour ago! And don't give me that old 'matters of national security' line again! ... I guess it doesn't matter, though... the whole temple is full of nasty cat witches, anyway. We'll just have to call off our date... that is, unless you want to battle the witches...

Где ты был, Джеймс? Мы договорились встретиться в храме час назад! И не рассказывай мне опять свои сказки о национальной безопасности!.. Ладно, это неважно, ибо... храм всё равно занят отвратными кошачьими ведьмами. Свидание придётся отменить... если, конечно, ты с ними не разберёшься...

So, I see those rocket launchers aren't just for show after all... Well, I just hope your accuracy is better than your punctuality, because there are still a lot more witches in the temple.

Вижу, твои ракетные установки не только для показухи... Надеюсь, твоя точность лучше пунктуальности, потому что теперь там ещё больше ведьм.

I must admit, James, I am impressed... There are still a few witches left, though, and this time they mean business! They even turned the floor into deadly blue ooze. Oh, be careful, ok?

Признаться, ты меня удивил, Джеймс... Там осталось ещё немного, и они очень серьёзны! Они превратили пол в смертоносную синюю жидкость. Ох, будь осторожен, ладно?

You did it, James!!! I knew you weren't the leader of the Hummingbird Resistance Movement for nothing! Now we have the temple all to ourselves... but first, I have a present for you...

Ты сделал это, Джеймс! Я знала, что ты не просто так лидер Движения Сопротивления Колибри! Храм остался нам двоим... но сначала, вот тебе мой подарок...

According to legends, there's a golden goose at the top of this here mountain. I want to be the first person to the top, so I can grab it!

Согласно легендам, на вершине этой горы живёт золотой гусь. И я собираюсь буду первым, кто взберётся туда и найдёт его!

By the way, if you can't figure out what to do next, we can always start over. &Start the puzzle over? &Yes. &No.

Кстати, можешь начать всё сначала, если зашёл в тупик. &Начать головоломку сначала? &Да. &Нет.

OK, here are your seeds again.

Окей, вот тебе семена.

Well, good luck. It's got me stumped.

Ладно, удачи. Я озадачен.

I just bought some insta-sprout-ultra-super-grow seeds from a bear with a bag of gems. He said they were magic, but I can't make them do anything. You can have a couple, if you like.

Я купил супер-пупер-мега-семена у медведя с сумкой, полной камней. Он сказал, они магические, но я не понял, как ими пользоваться. Может, ты поймёшь?

At last! I've found the legendary golden goose! You can have another one of its eggs for a souvenir!

Наконец-то! Я нашёл легендарного золотого гуся! Возьми одно из его яиц как сувенир!

That's the ugliest goose I've ever seen!

Это самый уродливый гусь в мире!

pant... pant... I found this egg on the way up here... I think it was laid by a golden goose! We'll have to keep going... We're almost to the top!

Уф... Уф... Я нашёл это яйцо по пути сюда... Думаю, его снёс золотой гусь! Продолжим путь... Мы почти на вершине!

You've been doing great so far, why don't you take two more seeds?

У тебя так хорошо получатеся, возьмёшь ещё пару семян?

OK, best of luck! These here thinking puzzles are too tough for me. I prefer action gameplay.

OK, всего наилучшего! Эти загадки слишком сложны для меня. Я предпочитаю действие.